#57 Add documentation for first 7 USD tutorials (#58)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/integration_resources/resources/usd_tutorials/usd_tutorial_02.md

## Inspecting and Authoring Properties

This tutorial is focused on looking at the properties containing geometric data on the prims created in the [Creating Your First USD Stage](usd_tutorial_01.md) tutorial, using the operators from the Shift_USD catalog.

> Also, the base file for the example can be downloaded from the [OpenUSD](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) Github project repository, from `extras/usd/tutorials/authoringProperties/` folder, it is the `HelloWorld.usda` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, the base file for the example can be downloaded from the [OpenUSD](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) Github project repository, from `extras/usd/tutorials/authoringProperties/` folder, it is the `HelloWorld.usda` file.
```
```suggestion
Also, the base file for the example, `HelloWorld.usda`, can be downloaded from the [OpenUSD](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) Github project repository, from `extras/usd/tutorials/authoringProperties/` folder.
```

Author: Done

In order to follow easily the steps, it is recommended to read the documentation about the [Shift's interface](../../../getting_started/basics/ui_overview.md) and [workflow execution](../../../getting_started/basics/execute.md).

### Tutorial

1. Open Shift application. A new window's instance of Shift should appear like the following one:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_01_t02.png" alt="Shift UI.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 2. Now, add a new **<tt>UsdStageOpen</tt>** node to the board. Using the **Inspector** widget, set as value for the **filepath** input plug a filepath pointing to the `HelloWorld.usda` file downloaded for the example. For doing this, the UI offers a browse button next to the plug input field that opens a browse dialog to facilitate locating the file or it can be added typing manually the path. The board should look like the following one:

Reviewer: We are not using `<tt>` in the first tutorial. Why do we here??
Also, I don't think is used in the rest of the documentation. Usually, we use quotes or we set it to italic.

If you still want to use this format, please ensure that is consistent through all the tutorials. 
```suggestion
2. Now, add a new **<tt>UsdStageOpen</tt>** node to the board. Using the **Inspector** widget, set as value for the **filepath** input plug a filepath pointing to the `HelloWorld.usda` file downloaded for the example. For doing this, the UI offers a browse button next to the plug input field that opens a browse dialog to facilitate locating the file or it can be added typing manually the path. The board should look like the following one:
```

Author: In the first tutorial we're using `**<tt>{node_name}</tt>**` too. I did it in this way because it's easier to mention the name of the node to be created. Then I use `{node_name}` to refer to the name of the node in the board after renaming it.

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_13_t02.png" alt="Added the 'RadiusValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'RadiusGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 13</b>: Added the 'RadiusValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'RadiusGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

14. For setting the value to the radius attribute, a new **<tt>Float</tt>** node is necessary, add it to the board and rename it as `RadiusValue`. Set `2,0` as the value of the input **value** plug. Connect the **out** output plug from `RadiusValue` node to the **value** input plug of the `RadiusValueSet` node. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_14_t02.png" alt="Added the 'RadiusValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'RadiusGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 14</b>: Added the 'RadiusValue' node to the board connected to the 'RadiusValueSet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 15. Now, for updating the sphere's extent to reflect its new size, the same process its needed for updating the value of the extent attribute. First, add a new **<tt>PythonScript</tt>** node and rename it as `MultiplyExtent`. Drag and drop a connection from the **value** output plug of the `ExtentValueGet` node over the `MultiplyExtent` node. A new **Add Plug** dialog should appear, leave the values of the plug configuration as they are preselected and click over the **ok** button to create the new input plug. Create an additional output plug doing `Right-Click` over the node, select **Create New Plug** option, in the **Add Plug** dialog, set `outValue` as the name, `instance` as the type and `out` as the direction. Now, type `outValue = value * 2` in the **script** input plug of the `MultiplyExtent` node. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. To update the sphere's extent to reflect its new size, the same process is needed to update the value of the extent attribute. First, add a new **<tt>PythonScript</tt>** node and rename it as `MultiplyExtent`. Drag and drop a connection from the **value** output plug of the `ExtentValueGet` node over the `MultiplyExtent` node.  In the **Add Plug** dialog, keep the preselected values for the plug configuration and click the **OK** button to create the new input plug. Create an additional output plug doing `Right-Click` over the node and selecting the **Create New Plug** option. In the **Add Plug** dialog set the name as 'outValue', the type as 'instance', and the direction as 'out'. Finally, type `outValue = value * 2` in the **script** input plug of the `MultiplyExtent` node. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_15_t02.gif" alt="Added the 'MultiplyExtent' node to the board connected to the 'ExtentValueGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 15</b>: Added the 'MultiplyExtent' node to the board connected to the 'ExtentValueGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

16. Add another **<tt>UsdAttributeValueSet</tt>** node to the board and rename it as `ExtentValueSet`. Connect the **attribute** output plug from the `ExtentGet` node to the **attribute** input plug of the new node. Also, connect the **outValue** output plug from the `MultiplyExtent` node to the **value** input plug. Leave the **useTime** input plug value set to `False` and the **time** input plug value set to `0`. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_16_t02.png" alt="Added the 'ExtentValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'ExtentGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 16</b>: Added the 'ExtentValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'ExtentGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 17. For authoring the displayColor on the sphere, add a new **<tt>UsdPrimDisplayColorSet</tt>** node to the board. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `WorldSphereGet` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. Set the **color** input plug value to `[0,0,1]`, the **indices** input plug value as `[]` and the **interpolation** input plug value as `constant`. Rename the node as `WorldDisplayColorSet` to identify it easily. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
17. For authoring the *displayColor* attribute of the sphere, add a new **<tt>UsdPrimDisplayColorSet</tt>** node to the board. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `WorldSphereGet` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. Set the **color** input plug value to `[0,0,1]`, the **indices** input plug value as `[]`, and the **interpolation** input plug value as `constant`. Rename the node as `WorldDisplayColorSet` to identify it easily. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_17_t02.png" alt="Added the 'RadiusValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'RadiusGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 17</b>: Added the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldSphereGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 18. Now, for executing all the workflow and save the resulting stage with all the attributes properly set is necessary to connect some [trigger](../../../reference/nodes.md#node-interface) plugs. Connect the **out-trigger** output plugs from nodes `HelloPropertyNamesGet`, `WorldPropertyNamesGet`, `RadiusValueSet` and `ExtentValueSet` to the **in-trigger** input plug of the `WorldDisplayColorSet` node. Doing this, the `WorldDisplayColorSet` node will be executed once the other nodes are done. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
18. To define the workflow execution order it is necessary to connect some [trigger](../../../reference/nodes#node-interface) plugs. Connect the **out-trigger** output plugs from nodes `HelloPropertyNamesGet`, `WorldPropertyNamesGet`, `RadiusValueSet` and `ExtentValueSet` to the **in-trigger** input plug of the `WorldDisplayColorSet` node. Doing this, the `WorldDisplayColorSet` node will be executed once the other nodes are done. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_18_t02.gif" alt="Added the trigger connections to 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 18</b>: Added the trigger connections to 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

19. For saving the stage, add a new **<tt>UsdPrimStageGet</tt>** node and rename it as `WorldStageGet`. Connect the **prim** output plug from `WorldDisplayColorSet` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. Doing this, the stage is retrieved from the sphere's prim. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_19_t02.png" alt="Added the 'WorldStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 19</b>: Added the 'WorldStageGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 20. For saving the stage, add a new **<tt>UsdStageSave</tt>** node. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `WorldStageGet` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave the **filepath** input plug value empty to override the opened initial USD file for the current example. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: Both steps are for saving the stage?

---

<p style="text-align:left;">

[< Creating a Simple USD Stage](usd_tutorial_01.md)
<span style="float:right;">
[Referencing Layers >](usd_tutorial_03.md)
</span>

</p>

---

## Inspecting and Authoring Properties

This tutorial focuses on inspecting the properties containing geometric data of the prims created in the tutorial [Creating a Simple USD Stage](usd_tutorial_01.md), using the operators from the Shift_USD catalog.

> The base file for the example is the resulting USD from the previous tutorial named `HelloWorld.usda`. Also, it can be downloaded from the [OpenUSD](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) Github project repository, from `extras/usd/tutorials/authoringProperties/` folder.

Author: I was thinking about this too. Because if we provide the solution to the tutorials, maybe the users will try to directly use them as input data for the workflow, and that won't work as expected because those files will be the solution already.
I added the starting USD files from the tutorials next to the provided workflows for implementing each one of the tutorials, just in case, they will have the input data next to the workflow of the tutorial.
What maybe can be useful is to add a new folder named `result`, and inside we can place the USD files, to separate between input data for the workflows and output data. We can discuss this during the SCRUM if you prefer. And after confirming, we can address this one. Thanks for pointing this!

> The base file for the example is the resulting USD from the previous tutorial named `HelloWorld.usda`. Also, it can be downloaded from the [OpenUSD](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) Github project repository, from `extras/usd/tutorials/authoringProperties/` folder.

Reviewer: Yes, let's mention it in the scrum

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_06_t02.png" alt="Added the 'WorldPropertyNamesGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldSphereGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 6</b>: Added the 'WorldPropertyNamesGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldSphereGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

7. Now, with the *HelloPropertyNamesGet* node selected, run the execution only for the selected nodes. The execution will run only on the necessary nodes to compute the *HelloPropertyNamesGet* node, meaning that from the 2 branches created, only the top one will be executed. With the *HelloPropertyNamesGet* node selected, `Right-Click` over the **propertyNames** output plug field and click on the *Show* option from the context menu. A new dialog should appear showing the value of the plug, which should be: `['proxyPrim', 'purpose', 'visibility', 'xformOpOrder']`. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_07_t02.png" alt="Executed the selected node named 'HelloPropertyNamesGet'.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 7</b>: Executed the selected node named 'HelloPropertyNamesGet'.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 8. Following the previous steps, do the same selecting now the *WorldPropertyNamesGet* node. Execute again only the selected node. The execution will run over the nodes on the bottom branch, that was still not executed. When showing the result values from the **propertyNames** output plug, the values of the list are: `['doubleSided', 'extent', 'orientation', 'primvars:displayColor', 'primvars:displayOpacity', 'proxyPrim', 'purpose', 'radius', 'visibility', 'xformOpOrder']`. The board should look like the following:

Author: Done

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_12_t02.png" alt="Added the 'RadiusGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldSphereGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 12</b>: Added the 'RadiusGet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldSphereGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

13. Add a new *UsdAttributeValueSet* node to the board and rename it as *RadiusValueSet*. Connect the **attribute** output plug from the *RadiusGet* node to the **attribute** input plug of the new node. Leave the **useTime** input plug value set to `False` and **time** input plug value set to `0`. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_13_t02.png" alt="Added the 'RadiusValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'RadiusGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 13</b>: Added the 'RadiusValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'RadiusGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 14. Add a new *Float* node to the board and rename it as *RadiusValue*. Set `2,0` as the value of the input **value** plug. Connect the **out** output plug from *RadiusValue* node to the **value** input plug of the *RadiusValueSet* node. The board should look like the following:

Author: Done

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_17_t02.png" alt="Added the 'RadiusValueSet' node to the board connected to the 'RadiusGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 17</b>: Added the 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node to the board connected to the 'WorldSphereGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

18. To define the workflow execution order it is necessary to connect some [trigger](../../../reference/nodes.md#node-interface) plugs. Connect the **out-trigger** output plugs from nodes *HelloPropertyNamesGet*, *WorldPropertyNamesGet*, *RadiusValueSet* and *ExtentValueSet* to the **in-trigger** input plug of the *WorldDisplayColorSet* node. Doing this, the *WorldDisplayColorSet* node will be executed once the other nodes are done. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_18_t02.gif" alt="Added the trigger connections to 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 18</b>: Added the trigger connections to 'WorldDisplayColorSet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 19. For retrieving the stage from a prim, add a new *UsdPrimStageGet* node and rename it as *WorldStageGet*. Connect the **prim** output plug from *WorldDisplayColorSet* node to the **prim** input plug of the new node. Doing this, the stage is retrieved from the sphere's prim. The board should look like the following:

Author: Done

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_20_t02.png" alt="Added the 'UsdStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'WorldStageGet' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 20</b>: Added the 'UsdStageSave' node to the board connected to the 'WorldStageGet' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

21. Execute the entire workflow. Open again the `HelloWorld.usda` file, it will now contain the authored properties updated and the new *displayColor* attribute set.

### Visualizing the Stage

Shift is shipped with native plugins to visualize and inspect the stage. They can be accessed from the *Usd* top menu:
* **USD Outliner**: Shows the user the stage hierarchy sourced from specific Usd nodes in the active board workflow.

* **USD Viewer**: Shows the stage in the Usd viewer sourced from specific Usd nodes in the active board workflow.

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_02/step_23_t02.png" alt="Shift USD Outliner and USD Viewer plugins.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 21</b>: Shift USD Outliner and USD Viewer plugins.</figcaption>
</figure>

> The *USD viewer* tool shipped with USD is used to visualise and inspect the stage viewport:

Author: Done change for `USD` word, same question about using visualise or visualize as before.
